README.md, before:

# Modular CLI Template

## Instantiate with `dotnet new ...`

The template can easily be used as a template with the `dotnet new` command. To do that, you first need to install it.

1. Clone the repository
2. In the terminal, naviate to the `CliTemplate` directory
3. Run `dotnet new install .` - add the `--force` flag to _update_ the installed template with a newer version of the source

After that, you can instantiate a new project like this.

```shell
dotnet new modwcli -o MyNewCliProject
cd MyNewCliProject
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit with code from "https://github.com/lord-executor/ModularCliTemplate"
dotnet run
```

## Creating Commands with `dotnet new ...`

1. Navigate to the `CommandTemplate` directory
2. Run `dotnent new install . --force` to install / update the template

In your modular CLI project, you can now create a new command with an arguments and handler class with

```shell
dotnet new modclicmd -n Hello -N "CliTemplate.Hello" -C "Say hello to everybody" -o "Hello"
```

This will create a new `HelloCommand` together with a `HelloArgs` and `HelloHandler` class in the "Hello" subdirectory (with the `-o` flag) and namespace `CliTemplate.Hello`. **Don't forget** to register the new command in `Program.cs`.

Commit message:

README introduction to the project

README.md, after:

# Modular CLI Template

Building simple command line tools with .NET is easy. Building advanced command line tools with many commands and subcommands, output with ANSI coloring, dependency injection and separation of concerns is much more difficult. And doing all of that in a _modular_, extensible and maintainable way is even harder. This is where the modular CLI template comes in.

This project serves as a template for building advanced CLI tools which can be created with `dotnet new ...`. The project is based on
- The [System.CommandLine](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/commandline/) library
- `Microsoft.Extensions` for dependency injection, logging and configuration management

While the template can of course be used as-is, the main point of this being a _template_ is that you can customize it at will. The files provide a basic skeleton for _structuring_ a CLI tool without prescribing too much.

## Instantiate with `dotnet new ...`

The template can easily be used as a template with the `dotnet new` command. To do that, you first need to install it.

1. Clone the repository
2. In the terminal, naviate to the `CliTemplate` directory
3. Run `dotnet new install .` - add the `--force` flag to _update_ the installed template with a newer version of the source

After that, you can instantiate a new project like this.

```shell
dotnet new modwcli -o MyNewCliProject
cd MyNewCliProject
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit with code from "https://github.com/lord-executor/ModularCliTemplate"
dotnet run
```

## Creating Commands with `dotnet new ...`

1. Navigate to the `CommandTemplate` directory
2. Run `dotnent new install . --force` to install / update the template

In your modular CLI project, you can now create a new command with an arguments and handler class with

```shell
dotnet new modclicmd -n Hello -N "CliTemplate.Hello" -C "Say hello to everybody" -o "Hello"
```

This will create a new `HelloCommand` together with a `HelloArgs` and `HelloHandler` class in the "Hello" subdirectory (with the `-o` flag) and namespace `CliTemplate.Hello`. **Don't forget** to register the new command in `Program.cs`.
